With only 1000 fine-tuning examples, we were able to perform better in most tasks than a strong baseline (Transformer encoder-decoder) that used the full supervised data, which in some cases had many orders of magnitude more examples. This “sample efficiency” greatly increases the usefulness of text summarization models as it significantly lowers the scale and cost of supervised data collection, which in the case of summarization is very expensive.While we find automatic metrics such as ROUGE are useful proxies for measuring progress during model development, they only provide limited information and don’t tell us the whole story, such as fluency or a comparison to human performance. To this end, we conducted a human evaluation, where raters were asked to compare summaries from our model with human ones (without knowing which is which). This has some similarities to the Turing test. Following this post is an example article from the XSum dataset along with the model-generated abstractive summary. The model correctly abstracts and paraphrases four named frigates (HMS Cumberland, HMS Campbeltown, HMS Chatham and HMS Cornwall) as “four Royal Navy frigates”, something an extractive approach could not do since “four” is not mentioned anywhere. Was this a fluke or did the model actually count? One way to find out is to add and remove ships to see if the count changes.As can be seen below, the model successfully “counts” ships from 2 to 5. However, when we add a sixth ship, the “HMS Alphabet”, it miscounts it as “seven”. So it appears the model has learned to count small numbers of items in a list, but does not yet generalize as elegantly as we would hope. Still, we think this rudimentary counting ability is impressive as it was not explicitly programmed into the model, and it demonstrates a limited amount of “symbolic reasoning” by the model. PEGASUS code and model release To support on-going research in this field and ensure reproducibility, we are releasing the PEGASUS code and model checkpoints on GitHub. This includes fine-tuning code which can be used to adapt PEGASUS to other summarization datasets.This work has been a collaborative effort involving Jingqing Zhang, Yao Zhao, Mohammad Saleh, and Peter J. Liu. We thank the T5 and Google News teams for providing datasets for pre-training PEGASUS.